---
layout: "post"
title: Fighting Entropy - Why We Should Create
date: 2021-07-25
categories: essay
description: Why should we create?
permalink: fighting-entropy
image:
image-description:
---

The universe is largely entropic, full of chaos and disorganization. The natural state of the universe is cold, still, and empty. Life and creation, on the other hand, is warm, moving, and full—and it's the exception in the universe. It's easy to destroy and let things be, but it's difficult to create. It's easier to sit than to get up.

For that reason alone, I believe that for those who choose to fight entropy, it's a noble cause; we *should* create. But *should* doesn't mean that you *must* create. One can spend your entire life consuming and can certainly live happily that way, but they wouldn't be contributing to the greater cause which is creation.

If you choose that you want to create, the next question is, what should I create? It depends. One model that I like to use is thinking about how much change I want to create. The invention of the airplane creates change (and thus fights entropy) at a scale that's much greater than the kite. The creations that fight entropy the most are the ones that are usually the most difficult to create (side note: in capitalism, those creations are usually financially rewarded - it's much more difficult to create a platform business like Airbnb vs. creating a single hotel.)

There are two important vectors that need to be taken into consideration when creating—knowledge and application. Increasing knowledge and/or application increases the chances of creating something with more value.

Knowledge is how much you know about a particular subject. Let's use the example of lithium. If you stumbled upon a rock and someone told you it contained lithium, you would know one way to find lithium. But if you studied rocks and became a geologist, you would know all the kinds of rocks that contain lithium. But knowledge on its own doesn't have much value. Who cares if you know that rock contains lithium? What has it done for the world?

In order for knowledge to become valuable, it has to be applied. Application is how the knowledge is used. Lithium can be used as treatment for some mental disorders, which is valuable - it has real use that brings benefit to people! By figuring out how to obtain the lithium and use it as a treatment, value has been created.

Now, this is pretty much common sense. But by conceptualizing these vectors, we can better reflect on how much learning we need to do to increase our chances of creating something valuable. It also gives us a way to judge ideas and whether or not they can be valuable - how much do you have to know and how many things do you have to get right for it to work? If someone is telling you "the idea can only work if you do x, y, z, but that's hard to pull off, I don't know man" - you're probably in the right direction.

We don't all have to start an Airbnb, but we should all try to create something, no matter how small.

<iframe width="1000px" height="450px" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/JBxl3qCXbRU" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
